Let's start working on our auto-logout functionality so that if we have a token that expired because
the user stayed in the app for more than one hour,
he's automatically logged out.
Now one important word, firebase also gives you this refresh token which we saw earlier in the console
log,
we can still see it if we quickly do login, here on the response data,
we got this refresh token, unlike the ID token, this never expires and you can always use that to send
it to a specific API endpoint, one which you can find in the documentation, exchange a refresh token
for an ID token to get a new ID token.
Now this allows you to theoretically create an infinite session,
this approach of course obviously is a bit less secure than when not using this refresh token because
since the refresh token is valid forever,
anyone with the refresh token can generate new ID tokens.
One important word here though, of course it's not that easy to get
the refresh token though, you store it in local storage,
we'll do this in a second
and there you can only access it with cross-site scripting attacks which vue prevents by default,
so it's less secure but not insecure per say.
Still I won't use that refresh token thing here,
you could of course implement it with the help of the documentation by sending it to this endpoint here
and getting a new ID token but for our needs here, the relevant thing is that the ID token alone if we're
not using the refresh token will expire after one hour and can't be used anymore.
So I want to implement some functionality which automatically logs the user out once the ID token became invalid
and we actually get the expiration time here as an argument in the response too. Right now it's always
3600 seconds
but if that should ever change in the future, we could still work with it because we can extract it
from the response.
Now this is the thing, the information we have,
how can we now automatically log the user out?
Let's move to our store, there
we got our action where we log the user in or when we sign the user up, where we get the token and we
need to set some timer here which automatically dispatches an action once,
well once the time is over, once the data is invalid.
So for that I'll add a new action, maybe at the top which I'll name set logout timer,
now in set logout timer, I will still pull out the commit method from this context object and I will receive
a payload, the expiration time, so the time until the token is invalid.
Then in here, I'll call set timeout
and I will pass expiration time as a second value,
however that would be in seconds but we need to measure this in milliseconds for set timeout,
so I will multiply it with 1000,
this will also automatically convert this string number to a real number
and then I want to execute this arrow function after this time period. In there.
I simply want to commit logout,
I want to logout once this time is over.
Now to be able to check this, I'll temporarily leave out the times thousand,
so the 3600 will be used which is 3.6 seconds,
so we should quickly see if logout works.
Now of course I need to dispatch set logout timer,
so I'll do this from the login method,
we can also pull out the dispatch method from this context object
as you already learned and I will dispatch this here in the then block, I'll dispatch set logout timer
and I of course need to pass on response data expiresIn was the name of the property which holds this
time and the same in the sign up method, there I already have the dispatch method available,
I need to call set logout timer here too and pass on res data expiresIn here too. With all that
saved, let's go back and let's sign in in our application,
we should instantly be logged out or not instantly but after 3.6 seconds, so let's wait,
unknown mutation type logout.
Well there is a tiny problem,
the mutation I want to execute is of course called clear auth data but
we could see that something will happen there
so chances are high it'll work now.
So let's login again, let's wait for this short time period again
and you see, we were logged out.
So with this, we added auto-logout,
now let me go back and multiply this expiration time with 1000 again to turn this into milliseconds
and therefore into the right value.
And with that, we add auto-logout,
now in the next lecture, let's have a look at auto-login so that we also can persist a valid token across
page reloads.